>> Steve Kinney: If we know that
we can access the file system,
it would be really great if we could
actually go ahead and read a file, right?
But what file do we read?
Well, in Node land,
we just use const fs = require fs.
And either you take it as
a command line argument, or
you know which file you're reading,
so on and so forth.
In this case we're
creating user interfaces,
which means that we need to go ahead and
ask the user what file they want to open.
Now, this could be tricky, right?
Do you want to create your
own bespoke user interface?
Like, all right, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to start in the current
directory and
I'm going to do like the fs.redir.
And then I'm going to create
this entire react application.
Where they're going to pick a file and
it's going to look all weird and
brand new.
Because have you ever opened up one of
those Java applications from the early
2000s?
And everything looks like slightly off and
weird, right?
We don't want to do that, right?
It won't look like a Windows app, it won't
look like a Mac app, so on and so forth.
So what we'll end up doing is,
we'll actually use the native
file system dialogs, right?
And so in Windows, the Windows user
will get a Windows file picker, right?
On Mac OS,
they'll get Mac OS file picker, on Linux,
they'll get a Linux file picker, right?
Whatever, whether it's Gnome or KD or
whatever, they'll get that in place.
So we don't have to do that ourselves
because that it is kind of built in for
us in Electron.
Anyone want to take a lucky guess
what module we use for a file dialog?
>> Speaker 2: File dialog?
>> Steve Kinney: Close, dialog, [LAUGH].
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so we have
dialog and dialog will go ahead, and
there's a bunch of methods on it.
I'm going to create a function then
we're going to move it around and
use it different places.
Because we don't know, I talked about it
earlier, which is operating system stuff.
The dialog module is only available
in the main process, right?
And so that might be tricky, like but
I have a button in my user interface,
I'm going to need to
talk to the main process.
We'll deal with that in a second, right
now we're just going to call the function,
and then we'll figure out
how to wire it up correctly.
So I'm going to make this function
because I'm going to move it around
multiple places.
I'm going to call it const,
maybe not in all caps.
>> Steve Kinney: const getFileFromUser,
right?
This is arbitrary function name,
you can call this any way you want,
you want to write ES5 function keywords,
whatever, it's fine.
This is just a JavaScript function.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
what we'll do now is we can say.
>> Steve Kinney: Dialog, let's hit dot,
and there is a bunch of stuff in here,
the ones that I'm kind of most
interested in are these show methods.
So showErrorBox,
showMessageBox, showOpenDialog,
that one seems useful for
what I want to do.
So I'll say dialog.showOpenDialog, and
we've got,
this takes a few different arguments.
It can take a first argument,
which is a browser window object.
Which we'll talk about in a second, we're
going to ignore that one for a second.
It takes effectively an object
full of options, and
what we can do is give it some
properties and properties is an array.
And these are the kind of, what kind
of native file dialog do you want?
And you might be like,
I want one where I can pick files,
cool, which is different than one for
saving files, so on and so forth.
But depending on your application, should
they be able to select multiple files?
Do we show hidden files?
So on and so forth, so
there's a bunch of options in here.
We can look at the docs in a second, but
the one that we know we want is openFile,
right?
Which will allow us to
basically select a file in
this case, and so
this method returns stuff.
And it'll either return one of two things,
it'll return undefined if the,
undefined or null,
we'll find out together in a second.
Undefined or null if the user hits cancel,
or it will turn an array of file
names based on the user's selection,
you're like, why an array?
Because I said earlier,
they can do multi select, so
it could be several files that they
picked, and so on and so forth, right?
So in that case it is an array, that way
you don't have to be like, array.is array,
if they picked multiple
files versus a single file.
It will either be undefined or
an array, cool, so
we'll say const files and that will be
the whatever the result of that was.
And for now, we're just going
to console.log files, right?
Let's just see what it gives us,
let's not take my word for anything,
I'm untrustworthy.
So, any time you change the main process,
you have to quit the application.
We also want to call this function,
eventually we want to
wire it up to the button.
We are not there yet, so what we'll do is,
whenever the application is ready,
we will do this getFileFromUser function.
So as soon as the application starts up,
it's going to create a browser window.
And right after that, it's going to go
ahead and give me this native file dialog.
>> Steve Kinney: Bounce in, there it is,
cool, so I can pick either one of these
two files from my desktop,
let's go with Grocery List.
The other one is none of your business.
>> Steve Kinney: There it is in the array,
I'm running an old version
of Mac OS because as much as I thought
about upgrading Mac OS yesterday.
The day before I did a six hour workshop,
I resisted that urge, so you may or
may not see this, but it's fine.
It's just yelling at me about
objective c frameworks, it's okay.
More importantly is we've
got this array down here,
which is the file that I selected,
cool, so there it is, and I picked it.
Now I can do all sorts of stuff with this,
now let's just try it one
more time where I cancel it.
>> Steve Kinney: And I'll go ahead and
I will hit Cancel, and I get undefined.
So we're going to have to be a little
bit defensive, if they hit Cancel,
it's not going to be in array.
So if you go in there and you try to grab
the first thing out of the array, and
it's undefined,
guess what's going to happen?
Your app's going to blow up,
that's not good, so
we have to be slightly
defensive about that.
And what we'll do in this case is we'll
say, if there's no such thing as files,
like if files is false.
>> Steve Kinney: Just return out early,
don't do anything else.
Like they cancelled,
we don't need to do anything else here,
cancel this, let's move on, it's fine.